# Rubiks_Cube_Timer2020
The programming language used was Java. The purpose of it is to simulate a Rubik's cube competition in a casual setting. It allows users to practice for Rubik's cube solving competitions and understand competition formatting. The video illustrates the program running from start to end. At the beginning, one is greeted with directions to generate a scramble. A scramble is generated after 'Enter' is pressed, and the user is further able to start cube inspection time through pressing 'Enter' again. After 15 seconds of inspection pass, the user is asked to time their solve by pressing 'enter' to start and stop the timer. The user is then greeted with two options. If 'Y' is pressed, the user is able to time another solve. If 'N' is pressed, the user is a given a summary statistic including average and best time and a list of times achieved during the session.

I developed the whole-program independently and broke it down into several methods. I started with the GetScramble() method, generating a random cube scramble. When developing it, I saw an opportunity to utilize the random() method. I assigned each move a number through an array and generated a scramble by using a loop and the method to randomly select a number that corresponded to a move through the array. I then moved on to the cubeTimer() method. I had difficulties finding a solution for the elapsed-time, but after many-trials, was able to devise an algorithm with the currentTimeMillis() method. It used a while-loop to repetitively find difference between the current and original system time, calculating elapsed time. I used similar logic creating the examineTime() method. After that, I created a set of methods that generated statistics of the times achieved. This includes an average-time, utilizing a for-loop to add all times in a list and divide by the number of items in it, and a best-time, utilizing a for-loop to read each item in a list and replace the value of a variable when a faster time is found. I then joined the methods together to create my organized-whole-program.
